[Music]
in 1981 party clown and aspiring
stand-up comedian Arthur Fleck lives
with his mother penny in Gotham City
Gotham is rife with crime and
unemployment leaving segments of the
population that disenfranchised and
impoverished Arthur suffers from a
medical disorder that causes him to
laugh at inappropriate times and depends
on social services for medication after
a gang of delinquents attacks Arthur in
an alley his co-worker Randall gives him
a gun for protection
Arthur meets his neighbor single mother
Sophie Du Monde and invites her to his
upcoming stand-up comedy show at a
nightclub while entertaining at a
children's hospital Arthur's gun falls
out of his pocket Randall lies that
Arthur bought the gun himself and Arthur
is fired on the subway still in his
clown makeup
Arthur is beaten by three drunken Wayne
Enterprises businessmen he shoots - in
self-defense and executes the third the
murders are condemned by billionaire
mayoral candidate Thomas Wayne who
labeled those envious of more successful
people as clowns demonstrations against
Gotham's rich begin with protesters
donning clown masks in Arthur's image
funding cuts shudder the social service
program leaving Arthur without his
medication Sophie attends Arthur
stand-up routine which goes poorly he
laughs uncontrollably and as difficulty
delivering his jokes popular talk show
host Murray Franklin mocks Arthur by
showing clips from Arthur's comedy
routine on his show Arthur intercepts a
letter written by penny to Thomas Wayne
alleging that he is Thomas's
illegitimate son and Barrett's his
mother for hiding the truth Arthur goes
to Wayne Manor
where he meets Thomas's young son Bruce
but flees after a scuffle with Alfred
Pennyworth the family Butler
following a visit from to Gotham City
Police Department detectives
investigating Arthur's involvement in
the train murders penny suffers a stroke
and is hospitalized at a public event
Arthur confronts Thomas who tells him
that penny is delusional and not his
biological mother in denial
Arthur visits Arkham state hospital and
steals Penny's case file the file says
penny adopted Arthur as a baby and
allowed her abusive boyfriend to harm
them both
however penny alleged that Thomas used
his influence to fabricate the adoption
and commit her to the asylum to hide
there
they're upset Arthur returns home and
enters Sophie's apartment unannounced
frightened Sophie tells him to leave
their previous encounters were Arthur's
delusions the following day Arthur kills
penny at the hospital
Arthur is invited to appear on Murray's
show due to the unexpected popularity of
his comedy routines clips as he prepares
Arthur is visited by Randall and fellow
ex colleague Gary Arthur murders Randall
for revenge but leaves Gary unharmed for
treating him well in the past enroute to
the studio
Arthur is pursued by the two detectives
on a train filled with some of the clown
protesters one detective accidentally
shoots a protester and incites a riot
allowing Arthur to escape before the
show goes live Arthur requests that
Murray introduce him as Joker a
reference to Murray's previous mocking
of Arthur Arthur walks out to applause
but the mood quickly changes when he
tells morbid jokes
confesses to the train murders and rants
about how society abandons the
downtrodden and mentally ill Arthur
kills Murray and is arrested as riots
break out across Gotham one rider
corners the Wayne family in an alley and
murders Thomas and his wife Martha
sparing Bruce rioters and an ambulance
crash into the police car freeing Arthur
who dances to the cheers of the crowd at
Arkham Asylum Arthur laughs to himself
about a joke and tells a psychiatrist
she would not understand it he runs from
the orderlies leaving a trail of bloody
footprints